---
sidebar_position: 2
---

# Create a Document

Clone the documentation source repository in your local environment.  

`git clone https://github.com/sfuSwSo/documentation.git`

Type the following command to create a working branch before making any updates on documents   
`git checkout -b [title_for_update]`

You can use markdown text editors like Obsidian or utilize VSCode's Markdown preview feature for more convenient markdown file writing.

## Create your first Document

Documents are **groups of pages** connected through:

- a **sidebar**
- **previous/next navigation**
- **versioning**

The sidebar automatically captures the file and directory structure, so when you create a document in `docs-[PROJECT_NAME]/**/[DOCUMENT_NAME].md`, it will be visible in the corresponding project's documentation page.

For example, write a Markdown file at docs-sample-project/hello.md

```md title="docs/hello.md"
# hello.md

This is my **first Docusaurus document**!
```

Now, we will make a pull request to reflect our local updates to the remote documentation source. Type the following commands to make a commit and push to the remote working branch:
```
git add .
git commit -m "brief_update_description"
git push
```

Next, go to the GitHub repository and open a pull request to merge this branch into the main branch. You can merge the PR by yourself (no reviewer required).

Once the document is merged, it will become available at:
https://sfuswso.github.io/docusaurus/docs-sample-project/hello

However, changes to the documentation source repository may take up to a day to be reflected on our Docusaurus hosting. If you need to perform a local deployment for testing your markdowns, you can refer to the [Deploy Local Site](deploy-local-site) section.

Additionally, you can explore more markdown features at:  
https://docusaurus.io/docs/markdown-features  

## Configure the Sidebar

Docusaurus automatically **creates a sidebar** from the `/docs*` folder.

To customize the sidebar label and position, you can add metadata as follows:

```md title="docs/hello.md" {1-4}
---
sidebar_label: 'Hi!'
sidebar_position: 3
---

# Hello

This is my **first Docusaurus document**!
```

For more information on adding sidebar metadata and category.json, please refer to:  
https://docusaurus.io/docs/sidebar/autogenerated#autogenerated-sidebar-metadata
